Now the next thing I want to talk about is social media.
So using social media to drive traffic towards your campaign and social media is one of those things
where you could pretty much spend your entire lifetime dedicated to polishing up your Twitter or optimizing
your instagram.
But I want to show you a more targeted way of going about your social media strategy.
So the first and the most important thing that you have to figure out for social media is audience i.e.
where are your customers at.
And here's a really simple strategy of doing this.
Let's take an active crowdfunding campaign as an example.
For example the Fierro cheesemaker which is basically a cheese strainer allows you to pour yogurt into
the strainer and overnight you create cheese but let's not tell the backers that because they've already
raised $100000.
But let's say that we were tasked with with marketing this particular product.
How would you go about using social media to market this.
Well you have to start thinking to yourself Who do I know who would buy this.
Who do I know who would be into this kind of product.
And you think oh I know Jane Jane loves these kinds of food tech things she always has these funky tools
in a kitchen all these like random little toys that seem to improve her cooking.
She's always making something new.
I know she is the perfect customer.
She would totally buy this and she would love it.
So where does Jane hang out on the interweb.
You have to figure out what is the social media channel that she use the most.
And you realize that you know she posts occasionally to Instagram but you know where I see the most
activity from her it's Pinterest.
So Pinterest of those you guys who don't know is kind of this pinboard where you can put down your dreams
your wishes your ideas your future plans.
People use it to plan places that they weren't traveled to or weddings that they're going to have even
without a husband.
And all of these plans are collected together in image format so that you can browse through it at your
leisure.
Now a lot of people use Pinterest to post ideas for food or recipes and this is the perfect place to
put a..
Fierro recipes or maybe something that was made using the cheese that came out of the kaffiyeh cheese
Drona or maybe just a short video or short demo of how it works how easy and effortless and clean it
is to use the cafeteria to create cheese from milk or yogurt.
Right.
And you are able to reach all of the Janes out there who are essentially your target market for your
product.
So how do you reach people on Pinterest.
The best way and the highest converting way is to go through group boards.
So group boards are collections of pinners who come together all posting content of the same board and
the value of it is that it usually has a lot of followers.
So for example I came across this cheeseboard which would be really perfect for our marketing for the
cafeteria.
You can see that it has 87000 followers which means that your pens go out to thousands of cheese lovers
all of these Janes who are potentially your buyers.
Now how do you find these group boards.
It can be a little bit tricky because there's no easy way of figuring it out on the Pinterest site itself.
So here's a little secret.
You can search in Google for a site called Pin groupy.
And what you can do on here is you can search by category or you can put in keywords to search in the
title of that group.
So for example say if we wanted find a group that posts recipes or if we found we wanted to find groups
that post about cheese then we can simply put that into the title search and then it'll give us all
the group boards that have that in the title or we can search in the description and the most powerful
thing about this Web site is that you can sort all of these group boards by who are the largest boards
and who are the most worthwhile to start targeting.
So once you go into those group boards and you start posting recipes from the cafeteria or how easy
it is to create cheese using like fear then you start reaching all of the people who are your potential
buyers and this is how you use social media to market selectively.
Now what if we weren't marketing for a cheese maker.
What if we were marketing the heritage food this authentic leather made in US hiking boots that is really
really hipster and it looks nice it's super comfortable really great hiking.
Now where would we put that in terms of social media.
So let's think about you know back to this question Who do we know who would buy this or who would love
this I know Dave Dave is the ultimate hipster.
He will buy anything that looks like it's made of leather.
He will promote all of the local shops and he will hate you if you call him a hipster.
He's always hiking all over the place posting pictures of him next to mountains him next to streams
so him and all the other Daves are who we want to target.
So where does Dave hang out.
Dave is a big Instagram user.
He uses Instagram to post all of his pictures from his hikes all using some sort of funky filter where
you see him hiking a mountain or hiking a valley and he tags all these images with hashtags like mountains
or hashtag authentic or hashtag hiker.
We all have one of those kinds of friends right.
So your strategy in order to market to all of the days is to go into Instagram and look at the hashtags
that your Dave uses.
Right.
What do they actually use.
Maybe they use some of these hashtags Maybe they use something different.
Now once you discovered those hashtags you can trace who else posts using these hashtags.
And you can go and look into those user accounts.
Now this is the formula for getting Instagram attention to your account and also getting followers to
your Instagram account.
So the recipe is to have a look inside those hashtags.
Find the first user who posted an image using the hashtag and follow their account then go into their
recent pictures and like the first and the second most recent image.
So if you have a good curated Instagram account with images that fit all of those hashtags the ones
that seem like you belong in that community you know you're posting images of handicrafts or of workshops.
Basically you know you fit that authentic that U.S. made that leather feel kind of aesthetic.
Then all of these other Daves will see that somebody you know who belongs in their community in their
circle has seen their account and has appreciated their content.
So you're more likely to get a follow back based on all of these factors.
So it can be extremely tedious doing this manually going through Instagram accounts following liking
and it can take days and days before you get any real results.
So here's a really useful tool that is quite well-known within the sort of growth hacking circles and
it's called the follow like him.
It's basically a bot that goes around and can carry out all of those tests automatically.
So it can go into certain hashtags and follow and like like all of those people who post using those
hashtags and it can start generating you genuine follow bags from real users.
Now another thing that you can do with a follower like is that you can go into competitor accounts.
So let's say that you are Nike right you can go into the added US social media accounts and see who
are the people who are actually following the added US account.
And you can start performing this sort of follow like like or something similar to grab the attention
of your competitors followers.
Now a word of warning.
Once you start using follow like on a large scale your own home feed might not be as curated or as fun
as it used to be.
It really depends on what your end goal is.
If you want genuine engagement then it's still better to do everything manually because then you can
filter out all of the business accounts and all of the relevant accounts whereas the board can't really
differentiate very easily.
So try it out consider it carefully and use it as a tool to help you reach more people.